1900
January 14, 1900. P.4
“ THE COMING MASQUERADE
THE BONANZA.
We beg to call attention to a large advertisement which appears in another column, of the well known and enterprising firm of the Bonanza. Messrs. Smith Bros. are nothing if [nor?] thoroughly up-to-date, and already they are announcing the arrival of the large and varied assortment of the thing requisite for the coming Masquerade. Masks, in plaster and wire, small fancy mirrors, beads, gold and silver lace, bangles, &c, are some of the many articles mentioned as having been just received. Their large and handsome stock of flower [?] feathers, hats, prints, ribbons, &c, have all been reduced marvellously in price for this season; and we can confidently recommended all our readers to pay a visit to this store if they are in search of really good and cheap bargains.”
P. 8
[Advertisement] “PEDRO PRADA.
Has just received a fine assortment of MASKS & COSTUMES FOR MASQUERADE.
MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS, fresh Havana CIGARETTES, and Havana DERBY CIGARETTES.
LADIES & GENTS BOOTS, Ladies KID GLOVES, Gents SHIRTS, Gents and Boys READY-MADE SUITS.
COCOA BAGS! COCOA BAGS!”

January 16, 1900
p.3
[Advertisements]
“SMITH BROTHERS & CO., THE BONANZA, MONDAY, JANUARY 15TH, 1900.
CREOLE SOLE LEATHER – BETTER AND CHEAPER THAN IMPORTED LEATHER.
SEE OUR SADDLES, FROM $6 UPWARDS. ENGLISH CARRIAGE HARNESS just received - $26 and upwards.
FOR MASQUERADE:
WIRE MASKS, WIRE MASKS, WIRE MASKS. Special cut prices to the wholesale trade.
SMALL MIRRORS AND ORNAMENTS, ROLLERS, Brass and tinned, very cheap. Gold lace, silver lace, spangled lace, ladies’ untrimmed straw and felt hats reduced to 12c. ladies’ trimmed hats, about 100 which were formerly sold at 3, 4 and 5 dollars, reduced for Masquerade do 24c. gloves, handkerchiefs, prints, ribbons, flowers, feathers, and other goods reduced specially for the Masquerade.
Cocoa Estate Supplies, just in time for this Crop. Cocoa and sugar bags (all sizes) and Sewing Twine and needles, cocoa house rails 12 ft. long, cocoa house wheels all sizes, cocoa shovels, galvanized iron roofing, galvanise screws and washers, cocoa pruners, dog spikes, leader and shaft hames. 
Special show this week of Gent’s Underwear – Natural wool Shirts at 72 cents.
EXTRA VALUE – In gent’s washing ties, a fine lot of Derby’s at 8c, Coulored Pique Derbys – your choice of about 50 styles at 6c.
Smith Bros. & Co., The Bonanza.”

January 20, 1900.
p.5
“CARNIVAL SONGS.
The following  has been sent us with a request for publication as being one of the Carnival songs to be sung next month. For ourselves we fail to see either rhyme or reason in it; but doubtless its composer and hi party appreciate it.
1900 MASQUERADE CALYPSO.
Sunday afternoon going round the Circular,
Circular stimulator brulé la main moin,
-
28 December in the year 1899
Trayline and great Little Diamond brulé Savan la
-
Run Mordecal run, run them round the Circular,
Mohawk Prince you don’t know that Trayline[selera?], San Humanité
-
People all, people all, I am going to the battle field,
Battle field of Sir Jerningham, 1900, San Humanité,
-
Barracks! Barracks! Artillery you don’t know the law,
Artillery you don’t know the Barracks fire arm báca deviver,
-
Climbing up, climbing up, climbing up Majouba Hill,
We are all a contingent and foremen Calypso,
-
Tell the people for me we coming up, San Humanité,
We coming up, we make up we mind to sing the  double tone, faire yo devirai.”

January 27, 1900
“FOR THE CARNIVAL.
Regular rehearsals are being nightly held in and out of the city for the coming masquerade. It would appear that there will be  many bands or troupes this year. One of the troupes is getting up a repertoire of Jubilee and Plantation songs for the occasion.”

February 14, 1900. P. 7
“FOR THE CARNIVAL.
Several Bands comprising gentlemen of the City, principally Venezuelans, are being organized for the purpose of parading the streets on the two days of the Carnival. If the show on the days of the Carnival was confined to such like parades one could appreciate, and enjoy the sight.”

TUESDAY, 20th FEB. 1900
THE CARNIVAL PROCLAMATION
As is customary at this season of the year the whole country has been freely placarded with copies of the Carnival proclamation and police notices relating thereto which were recently published in the “Royal Gazette”. And as is also customary with Government notices, that under the seal of the Governor and signed by the Honourable the Colonial Secretary, is couched in such language as to contrive to order just what it is intended to prohibit Has His Excellency thought of it, we wonder that by one of His own proclamations he has in defiance of another bearing even date there with actually in effect ordered the Carnival to extend from 7 p. m. on Saturday the 24th  to 6 a. m. on Wednesday the 28th of February? It is quite certain this was not intended. But we will give ours readers an opportunity to judge. The proclamation says: -
“…..During the period commencing at 7 p.m. on the 24th of February and terminating at 6 a.m. at Wednesday the 28th of February, in any street, high way, or other public place, within this Colony, the following things, that is to say, 
    (a) The carrying of any lighted torch, any dance, or procession, or any assemblage or collection of persons armed with sticks or other weapons of offence to the number of ten or more; and,
    (b) Except between the hours of six in the morning and 7 in the evening, the playing of nay drum, the blowing of any horn, or the use of any noisy instrument; are strictly prohibit; ……
In plain English this surely means that from 7 p.m. on Saturday to 6 a.m. on Wednesday, torches, dance, and processions and bands of ten are prohibited; and drums, horns &co may only being played by day; that is to say, all Sunday, Monday and Tuesday they many being played. Now if on these three days the only things prohibited be torches, dances and processions; then all other forms of masquerade, (including be it remembered drum and horn bands and bands armed with sticks up to 9 in number all day on Sunday to 6 p.m.) are, by necessary implication, allowed, another thing is this. By clause (1) of the above quotation ... “any dance or procession …” is absolutely prohibited, is it intended to be so? If so, we should like to see it enforced, if possible. But we fear it is impossible; nor was it so intended. The elegant bit of composition in the final expression “are strictly prohibited”, occurring in the connection it does is also one more of the comic niceties of Official English in the Colony. This is also precisely the same thing to which we had to draw attention in last year’s proclamation; and it was then corrected. 

February 20, 1900.
p.5
“ A SUGGESTION.
TRAFFIC ON THE CARNIVAL DAYS.
A correspondent sends us the suggestion, and it is one which we think the Inspector General of police would do well to consider, that not only the cab traffic, but the Electric Tram Traffic should be suspended during Monday and Tuesday afternoon for the Carnival, lest many and serious accidents should occur in Charlotte and other streets, it is well known that Charlotte Street is one of the most popular and populous thoroughfares in the City in these afternoons; and in several such streets the vehicular and horse traffic is suspended. Is would be only fair therefore that the Electric tram service, which, we must say, is often most dangerous as it is, from its excessive speed, should be suspended say from 3 to 8 p.m. on both days. Let the cars start from the Park Street corner on these afternoons instead of the King Street, the loss to the Company will not probably be much; and we are sure that the board of Directors, who have always shown themselves willing to assist that public convenience, will agree for the sake of the public safety, to do as we suggest.”

February 21, 1900. P.6
“TRAFFIC ON CARNIVAL DAYS.
TO THE EDITOR OF THE PORT-OF-SPAIN GAZETTE
Dear Sir, - The “Suggestion” made by one of your correspondents in today’s ‘Gazette’ to stop the traffic of the Electric Tram Cars on Carnival days, shows how little he is inclined to consult the Public convenience. The Police Authorities who are the guardians of the Public, and who are more ‘up’ in these matters, have already taken the necessary  measures to ensure perfect safety without depriving the people of one of their chief pleasures on those days, viz: a ride on the Electric Tram Cars, which have always been kept running without any accident whatever, and are much appreciated by Masqueraders and others.
Let your correspondent suggest something better next time, and not try to prevent people from enjoying themselves once a year.
Yours truly,
BELMONT.
Port-of-Spain,
Feb, 20th, 1900.”

February 22, 1900. P7.
“THE CARNIVAL.
There is every prospect of this year’s carnival being one of the gayest we have had for many a year; and a return to old time styles is shown by the nightly parading of the streets in masquerade costume which has been going on for the nightly practising also, the bands of music will be of a character was above the ordinary run of past years.”

February 23, 1900. P3
“THE CARNIVAL DOWN SOUTH.
From San Fernando we learn that like the city, the Carnival of 1900 promises to be one of the brightest, most amusing and let us hope for their own sake, the most peaceful and harmless ever witnessed in Petit Bourg. The masqueraders are busying themselves in fresh making, rehearsals at night, and other preliminaries. Of the many bands to turn out, we hear that the most prominent and ‘Catohy’ [?] will be the ‘Moral Diamond’, ‘Brilliant Star’, ‘White Rose’ and ‘Defiance Girls’. Some of the ballads will be on the South African War, specially composed by local ‘Poets’.

February 24, 1900. P.5
CARNIVAL SONG
The following is a sample of the songs sang yesterday. The one here given was sung by the “White Rose” band. Britain has held her own from the time of the Conqueror; Britain has held her own from the time of the Conqueror; And is prepared to hold it again in the Transvaal, sans humanité
­­­­­­­­­­­­­_____
France should know she is dead, since brave Napoleon fell; Whose policy is rotten and  Government a mere force; Yet claims that the little as the world’s greatest nation; But will never again be the nation that she was, sans humanité
_____
She should glance and reconnoitre into her past history; The land which gave birth to the men who were brutes; She should seek to amend the crimes committed sans humanité; And remember Robespierre, Danton and Bassen, pasco sans humanité
_____
France who gives shelter to anarchists of Italy; France who harbours the villains of the world; Who lives’ in conspiracy with the Russians bear; Should be excluded as a power sans humanité
_____
See the big Russian bear only dreaming of expansion; Seized Port Arthur whilst we were politically engaged; Creeping like the snail from [xxx] into Pereia; When we are at war with the [Boecs], sans humanité
_____
The great Prussian territory land of our grandsons; Should avoid being in colleague with two such worthless nations; But should join hand in hand with Uncle Tom our cousin; And must remain the world’s conquerors, sans humanité
_____
In the event of hostilities our plan of campaign is laid; We will send the North Sea squadron to the Baltic Sea; And the Mediterranean to the Archipelago; And then will strain the big white bear sans humanité
_____
The Channel Squadron will then guard shameful France; And the North American and West Indian will came to aid; Then the Powerful, Indefatigable, Terrible and Renown; Will patrol the world’s waters sans humanité
_____
Then rule Britannia, Britannia must rule the waves; Then the Colonies will come in for a share in the pie; Then hip hip hurrah, for Great Britain pasca devera; Then Trinidad will claim the skin of the white bear, sans humanité.
__________________________________________________________________

THE YEAR’S CARNIVAL
AN IMPROVEMENT
It must be admitted in all sides that this year’s Carnival which began yesterday was quite an improvement upon recent years. From Sunday afternoon this annual fate began, and quite an unusually large number of children were to be seen perambulating the streets disguised in choice dresses. The crowds were large, and it was quite a gala time. Many of the children were to be seen driving as well as walking with their parents and guardians and in the Botanical Gardens also many of them were to be seen. Yesterday morning from an early hour maskers were to be seen about the streets. As usual there were thousands of sight seers and really some of the bands were worth white looking at. There was a representation of the Peacock, String Bands innumerable, amongst them prominent to the from the front being the Excelsior under the leadership of Martines, the Red Cross Society, the Liberty Band with gaudy yellow jackets and green pants and others, then there was the usual quantity of mechanical exhibitions – most [xxx] genius in their way, with no end too clowns, devils and such like. All of these afforded great amusement to many of our naval visitors and others who took in opportunity of securing some snap shots among those who drove about the streets we noticed Sir Hubers and Lady Jerningham, Lady Fleming and Mr Fleming, Sir Francis Scott and  Deputy Inspector General of Police Mr. A. D. P. Owen. Very few arrests were made such was the orderly conduct of the vast crowds. 
Today we expect even a greater gala day of the competition for the best dressed bands takes place at two o’clock p.m. opposite the stores of [xxx] Mativier, of La Favorita, in Marine Square when a cup will be presented to the winning band. 
We cannot close this notice without appealing to the Secretary of the Electric Tram Car Company, to warn his drives to be careful in passing on Charlotte Street. It was quite a miraculous escape yesterday that car a did not upset an American wagon driven by a lady with a number of children in it in the vicinity of Duke street. These drives should be required to go slowly on these occasions un such densely crowded streets as Charlotte Street always is. 

February 24, 1900. P.5
THE MASKER OF THE CARNIVAL
A STORY OF THE WEST INDIES
[Told by Mr. Graham Gorrib]
It is the first day of the Carnival. The streets, flooded with the tropical sunlight, are filled with a noisy and excited crowd, composed of many races and clothed in varied dress.
Port-of-Spain, the capital town of our West Indian colony Trinidad, is a place of a cosmopolitan type, and the in-dwellers of the little town speak the tongues of many lands. Today all join in the merriment of the great festival of the Church of Rome.
Along the narrow, asphalt-paved streets the crowd of maskers pours.
Heedless of the blazing sun, they pass along, shouting bands of brightly-dressed, and here and there of weird and repulsive characters. 
It is not difficult for the practised eye to identify the different races in spite of the disguise.
This band of twelve, dressed in a motley of male and female attire, are negroes. The loud laugh, the vigorous, coarse gestures, the over-flowing amount of animal spirits would betray them, apart from their unmistakable gait.
And here coming out of a side street, in another troupe, which is followed by an admiring crowd of the boys of the town. In the centre of the group, leaping and bounding, with shorus of frantic howis, is a human counterfeit of a Royal tiger. As they turn into the main street his cries redouble. He leaps from side to side with astounding actively and well-feigned fury; his two keepers have no easy task to restrain his violent movements with a gaudy chain. 
The human tiger and attendants form part of a religious festival, and of a creed differing vastly from the Roma Church, but to these young East Indians there is no incongruity in this intrusion of the ancient mummery of the East land of the West.
The European portion of the population – all sorts and conditions of men – wend their way through the dense crowd in carriages of cabs, or a grouped as on-lockers in door, way and on balcony. Confetti, rice and even small bags of flour fly on all sides, and a fierce battle goes on among the laughing people.
One of the family groups that looking down on the scene from the wooden balconies that [xxx] out over the foot-way consists of a white-haired but hale, fine-looking man, a lady, young and pretty, and a little girl, who claps her hands with delight at the gay objects below. The old man has no eyes for the scene below. He stands resting his shoulders against a pillar of the balcony, and finds pleasure in watching the smiling faces of wife and child. 
There is no member of the family absent – the only son. The boy is an earnest student, and is away with the fathers at the great College of the Immaculate Conception. The young fellow gives promise of great qualities, and of a noble future, and he holds the first place in the proud old father’s heart. 
The marry mass of surging people, passing and repassing below, send many a greeting to the group above. The old man ids held in honour by all in the island. The descendant of an ancient Spanish family, long settled [xxx], he shows the stamp of the stock. He has the strong-feature face, stately, spare figure of his race, and in his dark eyes –soft and a milling now – lurk the flash and glow of a proud and fiery temper.
“I fear poor Rodrigo will not reach home in time to take a part,” says the lady, in her softy Spanish tone.
“The lad is right,” answers the old man, pride in every accent of his voice. “Such idlences as this is not for one on whom so much depends. The fathers tell me his talents and applications call for a wider sphere than this small island, and at an early date intend to go to Europe.”
The lady sighed [xxx] looked wistfully at her small daughter, who was gleefully throwing confetti in handfuls on the crowd. She knew but too well that, dear as wife and child were to her chivalrous husband, his whole life was bound up in the boy who would bear the family name – the son of the first wife.
A masker, passing below, kisses his hand to the Spanish lady, who, with an arch glance at her husband, returns the salute. 
The old man’s eyes flash as they follow the figure of the presumptuous mask. He loves and trust his wife, but he cannot forget the great disparity of age; nor that the wife of his youth – the mother of his son – had been laid in the family vault near the water of the distant Gulf before the girl at his side had left the Convent school.
The appearance of the negro butler with the usual swizzle as an appetizer for the midday breakfast, is followed by a general move into the dining room, which opens on to the balcony.
The meal is in progress, when aloud knocking at the street door, and great shouting from the crowd, announce a visit from a party of maskers, who take advantage of the license of the day to make more or less unpleasant descents on all their acquaintances.
“Tell them we are at breakfast,” says the old man angrily. “The fools lack sense”.
The negro servant descended the stairs to the street door to carry on his master’s order, but in a few moments a band of maskers rush into the room, and begin to leap and caper about the place.
Their hideous maskers and loud cries make them sufficiently alarming, and the tumult is added to by the frightened cries of the little girl.
“Enough, enough!” roars the old man furiously. “Tis past a joke” Unmask, or tell us who you are!”
His irritation affords only food for mirth, and the maskers redouble their antics.
To push back his chair and seize one of the whirling figures in the work of a moment to the angry man, but the [xxx] masker with a dexterous twist, is soon out of his grasp. The old man glares at the flying figures, and through the door of his bedroom his glance fails on the polish barrel of his pistol, where, on the little shelf at the bed head, it lies ever loaded and ready for action, a few hurried steps and he has possession of it. “I will frighten the rogues!” he mutters, as he turns again towards the outer room.
A masker, dressed in woman’s clothes, is leaning over his wife, and as the old man approaches [xxx] a pair of gaudy arms round the lady neck. The sudden movement [xxx] places the cloth which covers the head and neck of the masker, and the quick eyes of the old Spaniard detect the short hair of a man beneath the womanly head-dress. His wife’s half-laughing expostulation, as rising. She pushes the masker from her, adds fuel to the fire.
Raising his pistol at the grotesque object before him, every nerve tingling with passion, a sudden cry of warning from his wife completes the catastrophe.
The blinding flesh and report of the weapon fired by his trembling fingers is followed by what seems a silence of minutes. The smoke, which for a time obscures the scene, passes sluggishly through the open doorways. There is a smell of burnt cloth, mingled with the odour of the powder. 
The old man, standing stupefied, the frightened maskers at the end of the room, the lady, who has thrown herself on her knees beside the huddled heap of finery on the floor, become slowly visible. 
A rush of many feet is heard on the stairs, and a crowd of many hued fences through the open doors. A tall, whit’s sergeant of police forces his way through, and, stooping over the silent figure, pushes the mask aside.
“Good heavens!”
The words burst from him in horror. He rises, but dare not look at the fierce old man who yet stands, the pistol I his hand.
The lady, wringing her hands in hopeless misery, turns her agonized face from the garish figure of the dead masker to the face of the man she loves.
The crowd of the curious draw nigh. The wild scream of an old negress rings out, as she [xxx] herself upon the floor and sobs and [xxx] in all the utter abandonment of negro grief.
“Oh. Mercy, mercy! The boy I nurse! Massa Rodrigo are dead; his father a killed him!”
*
On the last day of Carnival the sunlight still floods the streets with its golden beams, and the crowd still streams in noisy bands through the town. But there is one street which, though a man thoroughfare, is silent and deserted, save for a [xxx] of whispering women, who from the corner watch with insatiable curiosity the house where the awful tragedy of yesterday took place.

February 24, 1900. P.6
“THE MASKERS OF THE CARNIVAL
We have to thank a friend for having sent us a copy of the ‘Penny Pictorial’ from which we take a story ‘The Masker of the Carnival’ from the pen of Mr. Malcoim G. Gorrie, who it will be remembered was the son of Sir John Gorrie, late Chief Justice of this Colony. We are sure it will be read with interest, though Mr Gorrie has evidently fallen into an error when he states that the Carnival is a great festival of the Church of Rome. It is well known that far from it, the annual saturnalia has often bean denounced from the pulpit by Bishops and priests alike; though it is of course a season of festivities in Roman Catholic Countries.”

February 25, 1900. P.4
“TRADE AND THE CARNIVAL.
The shores have all doks [?] a fine business in connection with the Carnival festival. Large quantities of bright coloured stuffs, ribbons, plushes, velvets were disposed of, not to mention tinsel. On the whole there has been an improvement in the choice of materials which will be used for costumes, and the tone of the celebration it is said will be superior to years past. Among the troupes who will offer amusements to the votaries of Carnival, will be the Liberty Band, a number of young clerks who will be distinguished by their colours: red, yellow and green.”

February 28, 1900. P.5
“THE MASQUERADE OF 1900
At midnight last night the masquerade of 1900 came so an end; and in spite of the forebodings of troubles which were heard in many quarters,  there can be no doubt that it has been one of the most respectable, most orderly, least obscene, and yet most thoroughly and generally enjoyed carnivals which have been seen in Port-of-Spain for many years past. Of course the fete really began fully a fortnight ago, when single maskers and bands dressed in full carnival costumes, except masks, parade the streets of the city nightly, accompanied by bands of music. But from an early hour on Monday morning until late night the regular officially reconised Carnival was in full force, to an extent which has not been seen for along time. Not only were the numbers of players far in excess of previous years; but the costumes shewed much better parte, and in many instances were really very creditable and attractive. And assuredly those of such bands as the Brigade Union, White Rose, Australians, and others, must have cost no small sum of money. A marked featured of this year’s Carnival has been the general adoption of the idea of combination into ‘Bands’ each with a distinctive banner bearing a title or a motto, and accompanied by a brass or string band of more or less creditable pretensions. Amongst those who devoted themselves more exclusively to music, was a very fair imitation of the Police Band; the uniform, and the military ‘step’ being very well copied; white with a happy combination of strings and brass[?] several taking popular patriotic airs were tolerably rendered, especially in the earlier part of the day. Pierrots  were almost conspicuous by their absence, not more than some couple of dozen licenses having been granted by Police Magistrate; and these mostly kept themselves so such  streets as George, Charlotte, Upper Prince, Henry and Duke Streets. The usual number of shoe[?] blacks, photographers, surveyors [?] naval and military men, Devils, clowns, etc., and showmen were so [???], and several of the mechanical exhibitions were really deserving of great credit. The prevailing topic of the masquerade had been, as was only to be expected, the South African Boer War, and the general and unbounded loyalty of the whole population has been quite phenomenal. No one ventured, as we had thought probable, to ‘take of’ old Kruger; probably his reception would have been too hot. But one man yesterday afternoon played the part of General Gronje, seated on an old decrepit mule, dressed in long, loose hanging old robes of [?] low in dejection, and [?] in his render, with the motto ‘Defeat o Cronje’ in black.”
(…)
“THE BRIGADE UNION
One of the best, if not the best, of the patriotic bands was the Brigade Union who, with their magneficant two-poled banner of pale blue [?] and white, coton accompanies by a clarions and [siring?] band were followed all ober the town by a very large crown. The dr[?] of the  [?] of dozen or so of young man who composed this band was a picturesque imitation  in pale blue figured [silk?] and white cotton of the [?] of the South Australian. Volunteers with large ‘sombreros’ trned up on the side and fashioned with feather with silver and blue [epauletters?], white [?] ribbons, swords, [?]. the banner, about 10 feet [?] 12, was very handsomely painted with a designs representing a burning building in the hands of the Fire Brigade, who were rescuing a young girl. The song of this band, which was really well performed, was a fair history of the Transvaal from 1876 so date; and gave evidence os wide reading and no small knowledge of the history of the time.
ROSE HILL SOCIAL UNION
Another band deserving notice was the Rose Hill Social Union, composed of perhaps a score of men and women, in purple and white costumes, resembling, but scarcerly equaling in beuty and detail, the uniform of the Brigade Union. Their song was a long version in verse of the glorious reign of ‘Alexandrina Victoria’; and as may be judge was fully up to the usual merit for loyalty.
AUSTRALIA
The Australia band numbering close upon twenty five, and composed mostly of young men and girls, were gaily dressed in green and white costumes of a pattern of  the same style as the previous two; this volunteer ‘get up’ seeming to be a special favourite this year, the changes being rung upon colours more the fashions. Their banner, a large square one bore on one side a large coat of arms (lion and unicorn) in purple surmounted by a acroll bearing the word Australia. While on the reverse was the nation.
THE ARTILLERY BAND
The banner of the ‘Artillery Band’ bore suitable devices in the shape of filed guns ready for action, four in number, at the corners of the expanse of green ground; while on the two sides was an elaborate design of crossed swords,  guns and shells, around a painting very well executed by one Lovell, of a gun carriage draw by six white horses, across the veldt. A very pretty effect was given by the large numbers of broad green streamers and ribbon stays which, hung from the top of the banner in diagonal directions, were carried by the front and back members of the procession, thus helping to support the immense banner as it floated in breeze. The war song of these, with a wild and hearby chorus of ‘Far, far away!’, and ‘Fight Britannia, Fight’, was eminently warlike; and with an ingenuity which did the soloist considerable credit, within a couple of hours of the receipt of the surrender of General Cronje and his 8,000, a set of home made verses in celebration of the event were being sung to the usual curiously characteristic and suitable chant. In the afternoon, they were met by the Governor’s party who saluted and congratulated them on their get up.
WHITE ROSE BAND
The White Rose Band was composed of both men and women, dressed in pure white flowing robes, trimmed and edged with green; the men wearing white and green cloaks over their shoulders. The banner, carried suspended on two poles, was of green cloth, and in the center was a large full blown white roses, around which was a ring of silver sprays glittering inn  the sun. Their song was published by us yesterday. They were, we believe the winners of the Cup Competition.
THE SCOTTISH HIGHLANDERS
The leader of this band, (which was arrayed in full dress tartan and plaids if the Argyle and Sunderland Highllanders in scarlet and green), was mounted on a chestnut pony, and rode at the head of his men with drawn sword in band. Music was provided by guitar and cuarito[?] band. They carried no banner.
There were many others, of hand some design, but space forbids our mentioning more than the above. Among the rest were the Gold Bead, British Union, Iere, Eureka, Bonanza, Volunteers, Rose of England, Melbourne, Russians, Scots, and others.
It had been arranged that a competition for a silver cup offered by Mr. Ignacio Bodu for the most tastefully got up band should be held in the afternoon, but unfortunately it fell through. The fact was that so numerous and equally well dressed were all the bands and so great the crowds, that the task of judging would have been hard indeed; besides which several of the best from mistaken modesty or other wise did not turn up on the ground. Among the many residents of the city who drove about [?] afternoon to see the masquerades were noticed His Excellency the Governor and Lady Jerningham, Lady Fleming and Mr. Fleming, Sir Francis and Lady Scott, Deputy Inspector General Owen and many others. Great credits is due to Deputy Inspector General Owen, Inspector Norman  and large staff of Sergeants and Superintendent Sergeants under them who with a large body of police preserved order in a manner worthy of mention. At each street corner in the more crowded parts of the city were stationed some half dozen men; and in the course of the afternoon, with a very kindly and thoughtful consideration, in order to prevent any chance of a row while the bands were marching to the Brunswick Square for review, prior to the competition, a small police escort was supplied each; an honor which was highly appreciated; and was certainly instrumental in saving disorder. Some trouble had been anticipated from the Laventille Boers, who had, it is said, constructed a miniature Majuba Hill, completely fortified with shot and shelf, a scientifically provided with entrenchments, etc; but we are glad to say that the Boers deemed discretion the better part valour, and discreetly followed the recognized tactics of their, secure in their trenches; preferring to repel an attack than to take the offensive in the field. Doubtless this determination which we believe was arrived at in consequence of a certain ultimatum served on them from the proner quarter, was no doubt largely responsible for the general orderliness of the City; but still it must be admitted that great tact was shown by police and detectives alike throughout the two days of the Carnival. An considering the fewness of arrests, the enormous numbers of maskers and their followers, and the tonal absence so far as we have noticed, of any of the more objectionable features so common in bygone days, it must be confessed that the Carnival of 1900 has been a credit to its numerous supporters. And while in itself it is a custom which we cannot but think it would be better that we had not, for many reasons; yet if, and so long as Carnival is so peacefully carried out and so long as an effort is made, as has been done on several ways this year, to raise and elevate it to something of a more refined nature than the mere savage saturnalia it used to be in years gone by, there must be a matter of course, be less ground for objection to the celebration of what is, after all, an almost national and world wide annual amusement of the [???].”

March 1 1900. P.7
THE CARNIVAL BANNERS
The carnival banners of the Brigade Union, White Rose Union, Artillery Union and Australian Union were all painted by Mr. Samuel Lovell, a promising local artist who certainly deserves the greatest praise for his excellent taste. In a short time hence there will be little necessity for sending orders to England for Friendly Societies’ banners as they can be turned out locally perhaps at lest cost.”
“CARNIVAL AT COUVA
We regret to learn of at least two serious occurrences at Couva, which marred the quiet of this year’s Carnival there. A female masquerader severely wounded one Alexander Brathwalte with a razor, (so it is alleged), in the abdomen and scalp. The man now lies at the Hospital, his injuries being considered by Dr. Boucaud severe. Another man, one John Leacock, a noted bad character of Couva, almost got his thumb cut off with a stroke from cutlass.”